Classic Bagels (Soft, Chewy, Crisp)

* 850 g High gluten flour (such as King Arthur's Sir Lancelot HG flour)
* 475 g water
* 48 g canola oil See notes.
* 36 g sugar
* 9 g instant yeast
* 18 g kosher salt
* 21 g honey
* 5 g baking soda
* Poppy and sesame seeds or other topping


To the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, add the following
ingredients in the following order: water, yeast, salt, sugar, oil, honey (or
rye malt syrup), then flour.

Mix on the lowest speed for 2-3 minutes or until the ingredients are mixed
together. Switch the speed to the second-lowest and continue mixing for another
5-7 minutes. The dough should pull away from the walls of the bowl and become
strong and elastic/stretchy.

Cover the bowl and let the dough ferment for 1 to 1.5 hours at room temperature
(1 hour if the ambient temperature is warmer and 1.5 if it is cooler).

Divide the dough into 12 equal pieces and shape them into balls. Place the
balls on a baking sheet or a large platter. Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour.

Next, take the dough balls out of the fridge and shape them into bagels. Use
your finger to poke a hole through the center of each ball, then, using your
fingers, stretch the dough into a ring about 5" in diameter.

Place the pre-shaped bagels on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Let
the bagels proof at room temperature, uncovered, for 1 to 1.5 hours. The bagels
should firm up and slightly increase in volume but not much.

If baking the next day, refrigerate right away until ready to bake. You can
keep them in the fridge for up to 24 hours.

Preheat the oven to 450F (235C) without fan/convection.

Bring a large, wide pot of water to a boil. Add a teaspoon of baking soda and
stir well.

Carefully add 1 bagel to the pot. Boil for 30 seconds, flip and boil for
another 30 seconds. Using a wide slotted spoon/skimmer, remove the bagel from
the boiling water and place it back on the lined baking sheet.

Repeat until all bagels are done. If you are comfortable with it, you can boil
2-3 bagels at a time.

Sprinkle bagels with poppy seeds and/or sesame seeds, or any other seeds that
you like, or leave them plain.

Bake the bagels for 12 to 15 minutes in total, with the last 5 minutes with a
fan/convection to give them a nice color.

All ovens bake differently so keep a close eye on your bagels the first time
around and make adjustments if necessary.

Carefully transfer the bagels to a large cooling rack and let them cool for 20
or so minutes before serving.
